i hope you guys enjoyed the episode
brought to you by our sponsor blinkist
go to blinkist.com impact theory to get
off a blinkist premium membership and a
7-day free trial
all right enjoy the episode if you're
gonna do
something that somebody else already
does you're going to have competition
and you've got to be really really good
and i hate competition i guarantee you
on any day
there's somebody smarter than me better
looking better connected
wealthier i don't care so if you find a
void
something that no one's doing if you're
the only one doing it by definition you
are the best in the world
and if you're the best in the world you
have no competition so now
hold on to that turf as long as you can
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i
am here with a return guest who i think
you guys are going to love
the one the only jay salmon welcome jay
good morning tom so crazy successful
entrepreneur best-selling author
and you've got a new book out called
future proofing you
and there it is it's blurry you're going
to want to move it right in front of
your face
there it is um dude
this book is amazing uh so much so it is
the only book
that i've ever written the forward to
i've been asked a lot um and i want to
start with the dedication at least as it
appeared in the version that i got
hopefully this is what you kept
but here's what i saw to the reader
of disrupt you who emailed me saying
that he didn't believe
anyone could become a millionaire you're
wrong
nice and simple so jay walk us through
what is what is the book like what was
the
format you did something pretty unique
um that i happen to be fortunate enough
to follow along with
so again a thousand thanks for writing
forward it was a magnificent forward and
i was humbled by your words
but disrupt you really was the most fun
greatest thing i've done in my life in
the fact that when you write a book to
help people
and they email you and you get what i
call love letters from all over the
world
heard from people in 140 countries i
don't mean that to brag i'm just like
how is that possible but occasionally
you get an email from someone that says
this is all motivational
but i could never do it and it turns out
jay has very
thin skin that would eat at me like
how am i not reaching this person what
what what could i do more
so i came up with this crazy idea if
you're if you read greek literature or
pygmalion or
my fair lady where could i just take
somebody and i want to take somebody
with the least amount of advantages so
anybody reading his story would say well
i'm starting off
equal or better so could i find somebody
that grew up on welfare
a millennial and mentor him one day a
week for a year
and would it be possible to take
somebody with no capital ground rules
where i gave no money i made no
introductions
and i didn't tell them what business to
do could i get them from
basically homeless to self-paid
millionaire in 12 months
and i'll wreck the ending uh 11 months
and we sat down i introduced you to ben
uh before i did the experiment and uh to
document it and you have that footage
hopefully
and then worked hard so the last thing i
want to do is tell anybody that it's
easy
right vin was willing to work harder in
one year than most people were willing
to work so it could live the rest of his
life
in a manner than most people don't and
he sacrificed and he learned
and i tried to take all that
mentoring and bring it down to first of
all
detailed steps to follow and
consolidate it down to what i call 12
truths if you follow these 12 truths
you will be successful these aren't
crazy
rocket science uh vin's not an engineer
i'm not an engineer
steve jobs was an engineer i mean you
don't need any college degree
you don't have to be in a first world
nation you don't have to be in a big
city
you're one click away from seven billion
people
right so you only have to figure out how
to reach once
and if you can figure out that process
you can do it again and again and be
what i call future group
i used to talk about and when the last
time we were on the show i said
whether by choice or circumstance
everyone's job will be disrupted
and some people go nah not me i don't
have to make that case anymore
post-pandemic
i mean everyone got disrupted
but did that mean that it was a bad
thing or a good thing i mean health-wise
it's a horrible thing
god forbid you got affected but every
obstacle
is an opportunity in disguise
you saw some people made huge fortunes
during this
so other people wiped out and so all
that i'm trying to do
is pay it forward and teach people how
they can
take control of their own destiny yeah
that to me is
such an important question right now and
one thing i think you and i
have bonded over is so something
happened generationally
between um you and i and then
the generation that's coming up now
where they
feel sort of defeated before they even
begin and
i'll i'll even grant them okay cool
maybe it's harder than it was
um it certainly is not impossible you've
given some stats about how
frequently self-made millionaires and
billionaires are still coming online
right now again that's self-made this is
not people that have been handling
something
and what i love is that you
really did put your money where your
mouth is to see if this stuff would work
and if people get the motivation behind
it which
i'll say in my language and you tell me
if this is spot on
i've dedicated the entire rest of my
life to making sure that people have an
empowering mindset so they'll at least
try
so i cannot guarantee their success but
i can guarantee that
really going for something and believing
it's possible gives you
an advantage that's a thousand-fold over
somebody who just
acquiesces and says well this is too
hard so i'm not even going to try
i agree 100 and i'll even take one step
further
i only believe you need two things for
success insight and perseverance
even in today's marketplace in any
marketplace
okay i can teach people insight i've
taught it at the college level i had
students my first semester that made 150
million dollars
and dropped out of school probably a
good choice um
but you really help people on the
persistence
because motivation just like a shower
doesn't last forever
okay you need it again and again and
that's what's so great about your show
and what you do
and why i so look up to the leadership
you bring people
um but for those people feeling left out
and left behind and think that life's
just about leftovers i mean
it's not your fault that's the first
message okay
the bottom one percent 140
million americans own less than one
percent of this country
140 million americans with 120 million
americans
at or below the poverty line wages for
workers haven't gone up since 1982
and so it is much harder
and much like when you watch sports on
television
you see that best of reel you know
when they catch the ball and hit the
ball and it just looks amazing you don't
see
a full baseball game where nothing
happens for a whole long time
well social media does the same thing to
people they see everybody's life
in the highlights real oh it's so great
i must be doing something wrong
and it's not that i've i would have
never
understood what a billionaire was okay
growing up i didn't know a
millionaire i came from working class
family
and if you would have told me dozens of
people that i know became billionaires
i'd go like what are you smoking this
isn't the same and
yet every 48 hours as you said there's a
new billionaire created
how is that possible and so i tried to
break down the book
what we learned that was was wrong
doesn't work you talk a lot about having
a growth mindset key absolutely
important
but actually our educational system
stifles the mindset
and the example that i talked about in
the book is if we go back to elementary
school
mac they tell you if
i buy an app for one dollar and i sell
to tom for two dollars i make a dollar
that's how business works nothing could
be further than the truth
because that implies what in game theory
is called
zero-sum game the only way i get money
is by taking your money
well if you have that mindset well
either tom has the money or i have the
money
if they get a raise i don't get it if
they get a promotion i don't get it
foreigners are taking my jobs immigrants
are taking jobs other countries are
taking my jobs robots
it's me versus the world it becomes this
grind up of hatred
on the other hand i go tom i'm starting
this business
i'll sell you 10 for 10 000 how much am
i now worth
well i own 90 so i now have 90 000
it wasn't created by the federal reserve
it didn't come from a bank
i made it out of thin air but i can buy
things with that i can sell things i can
hire people i can do all kinds of stuff
and that is how jeff bezos could lose
money
year after year after year for 10 years
and come out the other side
as the richest man in the world he
didn't
take money he created money elon musk
it's funny last time we sat down
together
i was updating my first book elon musk
was worth seven billion dollars
very impressive he's an impressive guy i
love the lawn uh he's not worth 200
billion dollars
what did he do in five years that the
rest of us were asleep
and by the way he made it all things
that were public so we all could have
participated
so you don't need capital you don't need
connections
you don't need a fancy degree
i'm not saying not to go to college
there's pros and cons of everything
but you can do it and the secret is this
if you're going to do something that
somebody else already does
you're going to have competition and you
got to be really really good
and i hate competition i guarantee you
on any day
there's somebody smarter than me better
looking better connected
wealthier i don't care i hate that
so if you find a void something that no
one's doing
if you're the only one doing it by
definition you are the best in the world
and if you're the best in the world you
have no competition so now
hold on to that turf as long as you can
so when i
when i sat down with ben it came to me
with an idea that probably
half the people watching the show uh
already have which is i understand
social media i can help people do social
media
i'm like yes so can 50 million other
people
and it's and he's probably good at it
i'm not i'm not finding
finding fault his thoughts and skill set
is the people that he knew in his circle
didn't have any money to pay him and
their coca-colas and and
the sylvester stallones of the world
don't need to hire him
there's whole agencies so he's
floundering
but what if he just focused and said
i do social media for this and find one
thing that nobody else is touting as
their specialty
could you get clients well pick
something that
really needs help yes and then the
second you
do great for that first client you now
own the world because now you have this
case study and say
you're not just saying you're the best
in the world you are the best in the
world and that's all been had to do
no capital nothing so vin is the example
of just how much of this is possible i
think it's really intriguing i think
it's worth going into his story so
when i met him um
i trusted your opinion but didn't look
at him and go oh that's the obvious
choice of the person to choose
he was pretty outlandish um he
you know dressed very garishly he was
like
had no professionalism about nice guy i
am not in any way shape or form saying
he was unpleasant i'm just saying
he was very rough very unpolished um had
a bit of a sort of deer in headlights
effect when i met him he seemed
unconvinced of what you guys were doing
and was hopeful to be sure
but wasn't like you it's not like you
took a kid that had just graduated with
a harvard mba
and said okay hey i'm going to show that
this works
in the book you reveal this and even i
didn't know this
so in the book you pull then aside and
you say hey van look
i have done an exhaustive search for
somebody that i think
has the mental fortitude the skill set
the talents to pull this off
so that i know i'm dealing with a good
foundation because i don't i have the
chills because i know the punch line to
the story
and i want to make sure that you're
primed
you know if i just picked anybody this
could be a real disaster so my
reputation on the line here
i needed to make sure uh that i had the
right person and i have come to
you so i need you to know that you've
got something that other people don't
have and what we're going to do is we're
going to leverage that right
and then what's the punch line how many
people did you interview
just then so i started off this
relationship with a lot
and there's a there's a psychological
tool that you can use called the
pygmalion effect
and the history of it was a professor
went to
an elementary school and had all the
kids take a test at the beginning of the
year
and he looked at the test and told the
teacher these three students were going
to be super achievers this year they
were going to grow
and at the end of the year they measured
the whole class and what
those three kids super achievers turns
out the professor lied
you never looked at the test picked
three names at random but knew if you
treated people differently and then they
thought that they were smart
they would become smart so by telling
vin
that he had something special that i
coming from
a position of power and authority a very
successful guy
saw something in him he had to
internalize that so that that that gave
him that push at the beginning
the funny thing that i also was a shock
to me so he didn't find out by the way
that i lied to him until he read the
book
i never told him i never let on after
the whole thing
but when i was writing the book he also
led on to something
six months in he's now made you know six
hundred thousand dollars this is a kid
who grew up in public housing his
parents home welfare i mean
he's mind blown that this could happen
and by that point there was a trust
between the mentor and the mentee and he
handed me
a piece of paper and said when we first
met i took him out
uh bought him a pizza so the only money
i ever gave was
one three pizzas uh he wrote down a note
after our first meeting
and he wrote in his own words that
basically he thought i was full of the
you know this old guy but he has nothing
else going for him
and he'll go along and he'll play along
because he wants it so bad
i mean it can't be real but he'll hate
anybody else if they get the opportunity
so
to see this planet and he gave me this
because he wanted me to know that
he didn't believe the advice in the
beginning but he went along with it
because
i said so and
what he would find out is and what he
would say later is
some of the best advice possible
and the reason is most of us don't have
the experience
to know many things in business things
that might seem counterintuitive
you know how the world works as opposed
to how you were taught how it works
and that's why mentors are so important
i mean it's one of the 12 truths that
you can't do it on your own there's this
myth of the self-made man
it doesn't exist okay
everybody got there on the shoulders of
those who came before
and i try to teach people the tools of
how to find the right mentors
and it's not email somebody out of the
blue like i'm sure you get every day and
i get thousands of them will you be my
mentor
the best mentors you never use the m
word
you start a relationship you i teach you
how to look through their linkedin
profile and figure out who would be
right for you at that stage
you know the richest man in the world
who's your mentor right now
the difference between where you are
where they are
the skills might not translate there's
people in your field that would love to
help you
the world isn't out to compete
the world is really there to help and
the second you get that growth mindset
and find other people with that mindset
and there's tons of organizations like
score in the us or
eo or wpo i mean help is there
there's no one standing between you and
raising capital that
has never been easier you don't need
special skills
anything other than inside persistence
you can hire
so then what comes down to is what's
your insight
what problem are you going to solve and
the second you go on that journey
you're accomplishing two things one
you'll make money
but two since you're solving a problem
you're helping people
and joy doesn't come from money
satisfaction doesn't come from money
purpose doesn't come for money purpose
comes from
doing something that makes the world
better so
we have a lot of problems if you're
listening to my voice and you have
problems congratulations you're halfway
there
but imagine how great it feels
to solve a major issue and i don't mean
day one you have to do climate change
and
world hunger a basic problem
so i want to really nail some things
home for people
in terms of the um what you did with vin
so you said it but sort of off the cuff
you never gave him any money
you didn't even introduce him to people
which that would have been i think the
one thing people would have nailed you
for
is yeah sure like he's now meeting this
ultra successful guy who's incredibly
connected knows everybody so of course
this kid has been successful
but you didn't do yeah that's like no
that's like the ceo's
kid who sells the most girl scout
cookies right you know
20 000 employees have to buy a box yeah
now i wanted this to be completely fair
transparent other than the fact that i
like them in and
and repeatable if it can't be repeated
what's the point one of the things i
always hate about successful biographies
is if you go back in time and do what i
did well i can't go back in time i'm
living now
so you have to give people tools to work
in the future that's why it's about
future blue
okay so now let's start taking it step
by step so you have the 12 truths in the
book
truth number one where you start which i
think is incredibly important is sort of
where i spend my entire life
is you have to have a growth mindset so
you have to believe this is possible
um what were some of the other key
things specifically that you wanted to
get vin
on in the early days so you knew he'd be
primed
to achieve what he ended up achieving
so one of the things that was key to him
i think
generationally was he really wanted to
be famous
fame to him was was recognition
achievement all the things that come
from social media and that that presence
in
people's lives today and so he wanted to
name
his company you know ben clancy such and
such and the very first argument we had
was that in today's world you're not
necessarily going to have a company your
entire life this isn't like
ford motor company which now 100 plus
years is still in the ford family
you need a separate identity so that you
can sell what you create
and wasn't getting through so
he grew up in in london and i i i
you know worked with sir richard branson
so it's an autonomy
here's the role model to bring up okay
richard branson created the virgin brand
still in my mind the most brilliant
brand in the world
the basic reason that what is a virgin a
virgin is someone
that's new and doesn't know what they're
doing so if
he starts a company like virgin cola and
a flopsy because he can't compete
against
pepsi and coke it actually makes the
virgin brand stronger
it proves that he's a virgin he's trying
new things he's had 300 companies
he's had eight multi-billion dollar
companies in eight different fields
not a college graduate when i did a very
sophisticated
deal with him doesn't know how to read a
spreadsheet doesn't need to
you can hire people to do that so the
second i could separate for vin
that richard branson and virgin were
different identities
then then could create two different
identities
um i also had to explain
you have to look like your customer you
know
it's not selling out it's saving time
if you have this really unique look he
had long hair
he had gold wings on his shoes he had a
coat made out of feathers i mean
he was out you have no idea how accurate
that is
that's the kid that i met i was like wow
i
i posted a picture of him today uh um
you know from
from that before time and and all great
but i'll i'll give my own side of it so
it's not like there's the old guy
picking on the new kid
i was suddenly brought in i i was uh
a digital guy from the earliest days on
the internet at 78 you know did the
first
music on a computer first video and one
day i wake up and i'm head of the
world's largest music company
because music world went digital and i'm
still
a corporate guy wearing suit and tie and
nobody's relating to me and the head of
virgin music
says to me jake you see anybody else
with the thigh see anybody else with the
jacket
i'm like oh yeah i need to relate
went out and bought all black wardrobes
and for
five years i was in the music business i
only had blackhead to go
but i didn't have that barrier when
people go oh
this guy i can't relate and talk to him
so ben got a haircut
okay been been dressed even though 90
of what he did was virtual and that's
the other big thing
ben didn't have to rent an office ben
didn't have to hire tons of people
didn't have to buy equipment you can
create an international successful
company
remotely and virtually and if you didn't
believe that before the pandemic
i don't have to convince anybody now the
biggest corporations in the world
realize
they don't need the overhead anymore you
don't want to be owning a lot of
high-rise buildings in dense cities
because they're going to be sitting
empty
so ben and i clash on a lot of stuff but
here's to vin's credit
ben's superpower was he knew what he
didn't know
he knew that he didn't have the instinct
so whenever he viscerally was opposed to
something
he would pause and say am i against this
out of pride or out of fact
and if he didn't have a fact for his
argument he would go along
and that served him unbelievably well
it's not that
i'm a right and i know it all i've just
run
so many companies little companies big
companies i've been through this
that it doesn't matter what your
business is all businesses share
a number of key steps and key problems
i mean every business has to grow
every business has to figure out how to
attract employees and people
everybody has to manage cash flow you
know all these issues you may not have
the background
for and you may not have learned
the shortcuts to success in each of
those problems
everyone there's no way to build an
empowering mindset or get ahead in
business without
constantly learning and accessing new
information and today i want to share
with you guys my secret weapon in the
battle to learn new things and get ahead
blinkist blinkist is for anyone who
cares about learning but doesn't have a
lot of time
blinkus takes the key ideas and insights
from over 4
000 non-fiction bestsellers in more than
27 categories
and gathers them together in 15-minute
text and audio explainers
that help you understand more about the
core ideas use the blinks to get into a
topic quickly
find new topics to grow from or figure
out which books you want to spend more
time
reading and listening to more deeply
also they've teamed up with popular
podcast creators to blink
those for you too so you can get to the
heart of a podcast episode
fast you can use blinkist's shortcast to
quickly catch up on podcast episodes
you've missed
with high quality audio you can jump
right in on the go
during your commute at the gym around
the house or even download to listen
offline 15 million people are already
using blinkist to broaden their
knowledge in
27 non-fiction categories including
self-improvement personal growth
management
leadership and mindfulness and happiness
two books from their library that i've
listened to
and highly recommend are start with why
by simon sinek
and the power of habit by charles duhigg
right now
blinkist has a special offer just for
our audience go
to blinkist.com impact theory to start
your free
seven-day trial and get 25
off a blinkist premium membership that's
spelled
b-l-i-n-k-i-s-t
blinkist.com impact theory to get 25
off a blinkist premium membership and a
seven day free trial
all right guys take care and be
legendary
how did you help vin get the first
customer because that's really like when
you're starting a business man that is
the thing that's really daunting
so one of the things that i told him and
he did start on this but
it didn't happen to me where he got the
first customer um
was find a a charity where you can use
your skills for
okay because when you get involved with
the committees and doing all that stuff
the other people volunteering
aren't just volunteers and they go back
in a cave
there are executives at different
companies they have different
connections
and if you're showing your skills in
that world
somebody will notice and say ooh i've
got a project for you so that's a great
you know to do stuff that nonprofits
i had a digital ad agency that was
acquired by a
news corp for 200 million how did we get
client number one
we did psas public service announcements
for different charities
and my first one went so viral and
so insane that of course everybody in
the ad world notice
go oh let's go there it's it's that easy
um really fast i want to push on that so
you say a lot the phrase
it's that easy and what i like about
that
is hopefully it shakes people out
because you'll give example after
example after example after example of
like hey i had an insight and i put it
to use and look it built this huge thing
or this person had an insight and you
know it ends up being
a billion dollar exit um so
in the context of getting your first
customer that psa
you actually had to be good like your
psa had to outperform vin
ended up oh absolutely vin had to be
good and so
as you think about mentoring somebody or
having
taken one shot to find this one kid and
help him become something
how much of the process is learn your
craft
100 so you don't have to know
every aspect of your business but
and you you talk about this all the time
sweat equity overcomes
intellect 10 out of 10 times
right there's lots of smart people that
aren't doing anything and aren't
achieving
like the world doesn't go you're a magna
[__] laude here's a million bucks it
doesn't work that way
and yet when you look at universities c
students donate the most money back to
universities
that's interesting they're the most
successful okay
and it is the work that you put in
and the continual work and one of the
things that i try to also stress with
people is pretty much
everything we do nowadays can be
measured and if you can
measure it you can improve upon it so
you can a b test ads very cheaply if
you're doing an ad okay we'll
run it a hundred times plus you know
less than a dollar
how many people click through this one
how many click through that one oh this
one got more clicks we'll go with this
now we'll make this bigger make it lower
and in my ad
agency example we did this testing so
much so that we got to the point where
we get the average person to
interact with an ad that's interrupting
you
on the internet for 70 seconds
unheard of you're going to stop what
you're doing and spend 70 seconds
that was the average
then you start getting clients and then
it's how do i motivate i paid my sales
force more than i paid myself
i had contests where you could get a car
i just um we used to put the logos up on
the wall
i wanted a logo for each letter of the
alphabet if you get a client that gives
you some letter that we don't have
already
here's ten thousand dollars i mean
whatever it would take to get people to
be more motivated that are in sales
that's a job
in vince case he was self-motivated
after the first month and again we're
talking about you know one mentor
session a week this isn't i'm holding
hands and secretly running the
enterprise not at all
but once he saw what he had within him
because he did the work
he got the results the results were
spectacular
now here's the other thing about avoid
if there's something new there's
something hot if there's something that
that
the world suddenly pays attention to
then any work you do in that space will
be magnified
okay i was no computer genius i'm not an
engineer
but the mere fact i was on a computer
before anybody was like
you know about computers tell us you
know and
so each one of the things that i did you
know 10 years ago
i was the first app that created video
chat
for multiple people on a computer or on
a phone
what we do with zoom and everything else
nowadays we were too early
but you can't control timing so ben
just applied the same things he would
have done
you know to help a restaurant open or
help anybody
he just happened to find a client with a
big need
and a real short window and that's where
i was focusing
who who needs you today who who can't
survive without this today
and how do you get in front of them so
that they discover you
okay so i want to start putting these
pieces together for people so
okay vin needed a growth mindset um you
planted a seed in his mind that he was
special
that in the beginning probably uh took
the place of a growth mindset i was like
oh okay cool i've got something special
this guy is going to give me the
information to make me in particular
blossom he's looked at all these people
which of course was a lie
but vin believes that the first month
we're sort of
pushing pushing pushing but what we're
trying to get him to see
is haven you're you need to find that
void so
there's a lot of people that can do the
social media thing but if you pick
one like hardcore niche in there and
find somebody that has a very immediate
need
now you can get your first customer you
can get moving
we're making sure that he understands
you have to be very good at your craft
that you actually have to go out there
and deliver results for people that then
you can sort of snowball
um having read the book i know
sort of where this goes so okay cool
he's getting the early traction he's
doing
the the he's living your it really is
that simple
line he's just doing the things finding
the void executing being
good at delivering results in those
things but
not too long into this process it stops
being
fun and it's like this [__] is hard
how i've often said boredom kills more
entrepreneurs than failure
because you just realize oh my god to
get to a million dollars like i'm really
grinding here
how did you help him through that
process we've got the growth mindset
we've got the skills we've got the
customers and now we're
kind of tempted to stop
so there's a number of truths one of
them is that you have to embrace failure
thinks failure is some shame and
yet if you play a video game you don't
suddenly sit down
and play to the end you die
figure out what you did wrong do it
again you constantly course correct
until you fail fail fail fail fail
i won it's identical to business
you're going to make lots of mistakes in
vin's case
what was you know anybody who thinks you
know you're going to know what a year
of mentoring somebody and could this
possibly happen to be like
it was a nail biter from where i'm
sitting okay
because all of a sudden okay he's on the
right path he's doing good
and because of algorithms and policy
that had nothing to do with him or
anything that he was doing he wasn't
doing anything wrong
all sudden google and facebook make it
impossible for him to run his business
i mean it was a punch in the gut that
would have leveled
me i would have gone like oh my god what
do you do
but one of the things that i also taught
him was that you need more than one
revenue stream
because you never know when something
some beaver blocks that river makes a
damn i mean
you never know what's going to happen
and so coincidentally
he suddenly got i mean just killed out
in
left field but he was working on this
other revenue stream and he suddenly
realized i could take
the tools that i built for here and use
it for my client over here
and suddenly you know piece it back
together
so the other thing people have to
understand is there's gonna be hardship
there's gonna be obstacles it's not
gonna go smoothly
um but you either
earn or you learn so you don't fall
backwards
and he kept on learning new ways and
with that growth mindset and you can't
underestimate that you don't go oh my
god i
failed you go okay that didn't work
what else can i try you look at it as
okay i learned what this doesn't work
you know the old thomas edison with the
thousand tries of the light bulb
and so vin was constantly trying new
things that definitely didn't work
but you don't know unless you try and
developing more and more revenue streams
i mean one of the ones that he came up
with
on his own which was genius is suddenly
when he suddenly
had some success a whole lot of
work comes his way little piddly work
that doesn't have the upside and return
clients and things worth his time
but rather than just say he was too busy
he would farm them out to people
for commission and then just check in to
make sure they're doing it up because
his name is associated and now his
referral business
was minting money so by the end did you
teach him that because one of the things
that i find most
um like if i could steal your brain and
put it in a jar i would
it it you have this ability to look at
deal structure
and and see an opportunity that other
people don't see
and there were a few times in the book
where i thought oh man that is like a
jay
sammick classic move that he just did
and
uh like because when you talk about an
algorithm shifting
most people collapse like they just stop
at that point it's too daunting
everything feels so far out of your
control it's kind of like
you've just spent the last four years
building a house and then a tornado
comes along and wipes it out and you are
back to
the st not even the studs the studs are
gone all you have is foundation
and most people then stop whereas i've
seen you in your career time and time
again go
oh this could actually be turned into a
sculpture and now like what was meant to
be a house
is a sculpture and people are paying ten
dollars a pop and millions of people
come from around the world i'm like how
the [__] did this become
this much bigger opportunity than the
thing that just got knocked down by the
hurricane
so had you prepped vin for that moment
like how
how did he because you want you give
people vin's income month by month by
month
and so did you warn him ahead of time
like how did you
shape his mind the obstacle that leveled
him
to use your metaphor um i didn't see
that coming i mean
no one did that was like unheard of
unprecedented in the history
of google and facebook never happened
before hasn't happened since it was
horrible
um but to use your metaphor when that
house gets tumbled down
you still have a good solid foundation
with a good solid foundation you can
build anything so
deal structure is so important and yes
you cannot
stand on one foot and teach people every
form of deal structure
but at least in this book i'm trying to
show them how most of the wealth that
you see
in the world wasn't created by hard work
and saving
it was created by deal structure
spielberg did
become a billionaire by making movies
okay
it was the deal structure you know so
many of these things you give an example
from spielberg what did he do
so spielberg was making good movies
great director making top money living
living a rich life
but his lawyer realized that universal
studios was constantly turning
his movies into rides he got the jaws
ride got this ride and lord goes you
know
stephen should get a piece of that where
he's never making movies for you again
and so his lawyer negotiated i don't
know i'm not allowed to say what the
noun is
um but x amount of dollars per ticket
for every ticket ever sold for theme
park
then universal decides to open a second
theme park oh my god
and an international theme park okay
uh george lucas nobody wanted to make a
cowboy movie in space
it was the worst idea this thing's not
gonna make anything george lucas's first
sci-fi movie
went nowhere okay american graffiti
hadn't come out yet
so the most that he would give them was
the standard minimum for
a writer director producer i said you
know what
then let me have the sequel rights
i'm not making a sequel to this sure kid
take it for free
turns out to be star wars the studio
comes back oh yeah
please we'll pay you we want the secret
we want to see well
and this was again his lawyers well
let's have the secret
george can have the toy rights free and
clear no royalty paid to fox no
likeness rights paid to the other stars
12 billion dollars worth of toys later
like
who's laughing and i can go on and on
mcdonald's didn't make their money
raycroft didn't make his money from
hamburgers
made his money from the real estate
field of every franchisee buying
real estate that they made for location
so
you can structure this so what does this
have to do with me and my regular stuff
if you're going to be hired to do work
for a company
if it's a small little company and you
can
figure out how you can make them worth a
lot
you can negotiate equity you can
negotiate
a percentage of what you make for them
you can make a stretch goal in the
contract that they don't believe in that
if you hit the stretch goal
you get a huge pay i was working in a
company once
and there were hard times financial
times and
and the ceo was like we have to find a
way to make the numbers it said
okay if my division does 2x of what it's
supposed to make
can everybody in the division get twice
their salary for sure
never going to happen so i sat down
everybody would work for me
a ton of people and i made a cut out of
the cfo
space and i put them on top of one of
those charity thermometers you know
filling into raising money
and every week we started the weeding
with you know where are we on this
number
and everybody got it i had another
another guy that i used to work with if
the whole division hit their numbers
you your spouse and your kids everybody
the whole company goes to hawaii each
year for vacation
um so think of how you structure things
at the minimum say if i hit my target
for this contract
i get renewed because if you build a
company and you do all this great stuff
they can later hire somebody to work for
less than you once you've already made
them so
deal structure's so important and and so
in future-proofing you i really try to
go through
a bunch of deal structure examples and
why
you may need to bring in and spend the
money to have
an expert to help you structure certain
types of deals at certain times
in your life okay so here's
my takeaway from you as a human
certainly the thing that i take away
from
your books which are so important i
cannot stress how much i consider your
books
important for anybody who's trying to
accomplish something in their lives
but the um punch line is you can learn
this
the way you think about deal structure
all the stuff you walk people through
and disrupt you all the stuff you watch
walk people through and future proof you
is
you can learn it maybe it's even um it's
not like
physics hard but sure it doesn't come
naturally to people i don't care
it's like if you want to own your life
if you want to
take your time turn it into usable skill
set
and have the kind of extraordinary
outcome that you had with vin
who again you picked a random ass kid
who grew up on welfare you didn't give
him any connections no money nothing
you taught him a certain way to think
you taught him how to think about deal
structure how to be impervious to
changes and it's like it [__] worked
the kid hit a million dollars in revenue
in 11 months it's so crazy and when
you're reading the book you're like oh
my god is this going to work
was there anything put you on the spot
was there anything in either of these
two books
that you go wow that's rocket science
that's that's complicated that's you
know i have to learn you know pythagoras
theorem or was it all
common sense where you kind of go and
it's just comments
we need to give you a new word because
it isn't common sense
but it is once you have been introduced
to it it suddenly seems self-evident
but it is not the thing that i would
ever expect
people to have sort of on average across
the board
it's one of those things where there are
certain types of minds
that see that just like it it becomes
apparent to them they're they're the
people that can pull themselves out of
the matrix okay i'm fascinated by people
that can do that
i'm not a person that can pull myself
out of the matrix but once somebody
presents to me the path out
i'm willing to do the [__] work to
get out right so we all have our thing
you're able to pull yourself out of the
matrix now you've actually packaged hey
everybody
here's how you do it it this is
something it is a process
and here is the process and now it's up
to you to go learn
what i am so desperate for people to
understand
is what you teach is a process it is not
rocket science it is not pythagorean
theorem
but it does require the cultivation
of your will your
purpose your ability to
um fall and get back up you even one of
the sub
uh headings of one of the chapters or
one of the sections in one of the
chapters
is cultivating purpose
and i thought i wanted liter if i could
put my finger on
one thing in the table of contents that
proves you know what the [__] you were
talking about
it doesn't say find your purpose it says
cultivate your purpose
so talk to me about cultivation like
hey people aren't going to be born with
this they don't need to be born with
this
how do they cultivate something like
purpose
so we all have our unique life's journey
and life is hard i mean
for everybody there's different levels
of heart i'm not third world country
where do i get clean water hard but
everybody has their own their own
pains and stuff and when you see and
experience
pain or see justice or things to get to
each one of us would like to fix
something to make the world better
and as you can start aligning what you
do
to helping others the greatest joy
you'll ever get
is when you help someone else and the
more you're helping others the more
you end up helping yourself i mean i've
got very little joy zero joy out of
running back
i mean out of running what that's big
companies
you know i've run companies with 200 300
400 000 employees
there is a reason why they pay you a ton
of money to do that
your inbox is filled with hate every
morning hate your company
suing your company hate you why is this
you know everything sucks shareholders
ever i mean the whole world just
it's miserable and i dedicated my life
to
teaching people how to achieve their
dreams and my inbox is filled with on my
lowest
day a random note that comes in from
somebody
i shared one in this book that i asked
for permission because i was so moved by
it
but a woman about 50 years old uh
decided she was going to take all her
money and and go into the
airbnb you know rent some places
and be in the property business and she
lost everything
and she was planning to kill herself
and she called her daughter to say
goodbye before she killed herself
and her daughter goes you're killing
herself because she lost money
that's the stupidest thing in the world
and her daughter
gave this woman my book
and this woman wrote me to thank me that
it got her out of that darkness
and now she has a successful business
and she's moved on so
i found my purpose um we all have it
when i was young
my purpose was that i want to be rich
and i wanted i want a yacht
it was i had two small children and
how can i give them a better life and
for so many people they think a better
life means
buying your kids the things that you
didn't have
a better life is teaching them the
things you didn't know
so that they don't have to make your
same mistakes
but that's been my life's work and now
that they have their own lives i had a
void to fill
i was you know lost i was offered tons
more jobs and
you know been there done that don't need
the money there's no motivation
to put up with the aggravation but i did
have an engineer who worked for me
decades ago
who reached out to me and he had a
solution
for climate change poisons in our foods
um and he needed to get his company off
the ground so i said
i have a moral obligation to go on as
chairman
and so i'm chairman of greenfield
robotics which instead of putting poison
on our food to grow food let's just
think that for a second
how's that rational all of our crops are
grown with tons of herbicides and
pesticides we put enough stuff to kill
them but
it's not going to hurt us but now we
find out it gives us cancer
so we have little robots that go up and
down the fields take care of the weeds
or 300 million acres of corn and cotton
like camber you know
you don't need the cabbage anymore but
that also means you don't till the soil
and the number one source of greenhouse
gases is not cars and factories
it's farming so if we don't till the
soil
we sequester carbon we take poisons out
of our
soil so it doesn't go down the
mississippi fuel all the fish and we
take poisons out of our diet
so we don't die
how can i not join on to that purpose if
i have the skill set to help
it'd be morally wrong not to so you can
find purpose in any job and the proof of
it is
let's look at immigrants i don't care
from what country to what country
an immigrant made a choice to go from
point a to point b
point b may have been really horrible
but they're now on a mission and they
have a purpose to their life
so you may see them sweeping up or you
may see them at an
entry-level job that's not their
destination
and that propels them and that's why
one-third of fortune 500 companies were
founded by an immigrant
or the first generation child of them
they're on a mission to do something
and so how can people make that more
robust in themselves
so you get a spark of something nobody's
born with a purpose
um how do you fan those flames and turn
it into something that will sustain you
when the job is getting
hard when you're bored out of your mind
when you want to give up
how how can you make that a strong
enough thing to carry you through
so to find the purpose and all that i i
put in a bunch of questions to ask
yourself
and as you answer these questions it
will become
obvious what that is uh
you set goals along your purpose you
know
if it can be measured then it can be
improved how can you
what can you what impact can you have to
use your language this year
how do you do it fear is a tool
fear is good you're not going to
overcome your fear
that's another big one of the truth in
this book that most people don't talk
about
you it's good to be fearful that's why
we're here
your great great great great great
grandfather wasn't afraid of that
saber-toothed tiger you wouldn't be here
and you're not going to change that but
maybe you're afraid of the wrong things
you're afraid of losing money you're
afraid of being embarrassed you're
afraid of what your friends or parents
will say if you
start a company and it fails shouldn't
you be more fearful that you're trading
away
a year of your life 10 years of your
life your entire life a job
it's unfulfilling her job that will
never give you
the lifestyle that you want i'd be
afraid of wasting the one life i get the
one time
i'm on this planet that's the big
driving fear
how do i make today count how can i
start my dream today
and a lot of what i write about isn't
about you know
here's your five-year plan what are your
five goals for tomorrow
and you and i share that approach every
study shows if you write down your goals
you have a much better chance of making
them happen
plus you're focusing and if you do it
the night before
you no longer have worries keeping you
up all night because you got the ideas
down
and when you're sleeping those solutions
will come
you're freeing your subconscious you're
freeing everything that blocks you
and so a lot of things that may sound to
people that haven't read my books like
tree hugging hippie you know sit under
the pyramid stuff
that's not me there's actual biological
science on
how we work how our fear response works
how all these things work so if you can
leverage the science of what makes your
body function
to help empower you athletes do it
athletes have to get in that mode so
that they get adrenaline to run
yes they work out hard at exercising to
make their their
meat muscle you know their or what they
are as as
good as biologically possible but that
won't get on those reflexes
that won't get them across the finish
line
and it's the same thing and by the way
these same techniques
will work in finding a partner in life
you know finding uh you know dating i
mean
it's all straightforward
and doable and that that's my message to
the future
but when i realized i'd left some people
behind it didn't believe that they could
do it
i was willing to bet my entire
reputation that they can
i was worried i was fearful but it
worked
yeah jay thank you so much man where can
people
find you um obviously go to amazon
wherever books are sold kind of thing
but how can people connect
so as i did with the first book i made a
workbook so there's more exercises
that's all free
um it's 32 pages and you can get that at
my website
jsammit.com j-a-y-s-a-m-i-t
dot com and you can follow me on social
media linkedin anywhere
love to hear from you love to hear the
the uh
how you feel about the book and uh hope
that uh
everybody you know gets gets their
journey
made a little bit easier thank you so
much again
thank you for for writing it forward
for tumble truly truly my pleasure guys
i will just say this read it it is a
game changer walks you step by step
exactly what you need to do there are no
gatekeepers and speaking of things
that will move you forward if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be
legendary take care the world changed
well the world's continuing to change
we have self-made billionaires in their
20s happening
almost monthly they have the same 24
hours a day that you and i do
what are they doing differently what are
they doing that can be
learned from and copied and emulated to
solve a different problem
you